Reverend Parris is praying now, and, though we cannot hear his words, a sense of his
confusion hangs about him. He mumbles, then seems about to weep; then he weeps,
then,prays again; but his daughter does not stir on the bed.
The door opens, and his Negro slave enters. Tituba is in her forties. Parris brought her
with him from Barbados, where he spent some years as a merchant before entering the
ministry. She enters as one does who can no longer bear to be barred from the sight of
her beloved, but she is also very frightened because her slave sense has warned her
that, as always, trouble in this house eventually lands on her back.
Tituba, already taking a step backward: My Betty be hearty soon?
Parris: Out of here!
Tituba, backing to the door: My Betty not goin’ die...
Parris, scrambling to his feet in a fury: Out of my sight! She is gone. Out of my - He is
overcome with sobs. He clamps his teeth against them and closes the door and leans
against it, ex-hausted. Oh, my God! God help me! Quaking with fear, mum-bling to
himself through his sobs, he goes to the bed and gently takes Betty’s hand. Betty. Child.
Dear child, Will you wake, will you open up your eyes! Betty, little one...
He is bending to kneel again when his niece, Abigail Williams, seventeen, enters - a
strikingly beautiful girl, an orphan, with an 
 Act One 9
endless capacity for dissembling. Now she is all worry and appre-hension and
propriety.
Abigail: Uncle? He looks to her. Susanna Walcott’s here from Doctor Griggs.
Parris: Oh?. Let her come, let her come.
Abigail, leaning out the door to call to Susanna, who is down the hall a few
steps: Come in, Susanna.
Susanna Walcott, a little younger than Abigail, a nervous, hur-ried girl, enters.
Parris, eagerly: What does the doctor say, child?
Susanna, craning around Parris to get a look at Betty: He bid me come and tell
you, reverend sir, that he cannot discover no medicine for it in his books.
Parris: Then he must search on.
Susanna: Aye, sir, he have been searchin’ his books since he left you, sir. But he
bid me tell you, that you might look to un-natural things for the cause of it.
Parris, his eyes going wide: No - no. There be no unnatural cause here. Tell him
I have sent for Reverend Hale of Beverly, and Mr. Hale will surely confirm that.
Let him look to medicine and put out all thought of unnatural causes here. There
be none.
Susanna: Aye, sir. He bid me tell you. She turns to go.
Abigail: Speak nothin’ of it in the village, Susanna.
Parris: Go directly home and speak nothing of unnatural causes.
Susanna: Aye, sir. I pray for her. She goes out.
Abigail: Uncle, the rumor of witchcraft is all about; I think 
 10 The Crucible
you’d best go down and deny it yourself. The parlor’s packed with people, sir. I’ll sit
with her.
Parris, pressed, turns on her: And what shall I say to them? That my daughter
and my niece I discovered dancing like heathen in the forest?
Abigail: Uncle, we did dance; let you tell them I confessed it - and I’ll be
whipped if I must be. But they’re speakin’ of witch-craft. Betty’s not witched.
Parris: Abigail, I cannot go before the congregation when I know you have not
opened with me. What did you do with her in the forest?
Abigail: We did dance, uncle, and when you leaped out of the bush so suddenly,
Betty was frightened and then she fainted. And there’s the whole of it.
Parris: Child. Sit you down.
Abigail, quavering, as she sits: I would never hurt Betty. I love her dearly.
Parris; Now look you, child, your punishment will come in its time. But if you
trafficked with spirits in the forest I must know it now, for surely my enemies
will, and they will ruin me with it.
Abigail: But we never conjured spirits.
Parris: Then why can she not move herself since midnight? This child is
desperate! Abigail lowers her eyes. It must come out - my enemies will bring it
out. Let me know what you done there. Abigail, do you understand that I have
many enemies?
Abigail: I have heard of it, uncle.
Parris: There is a faction that is sworn to drive me from my pulpit. Do you
understand that?
Abigail: I think so, sir. 
Act One 11
Parris: Now then, in the midst of such disruption, my own household is discovered to
be the very center of some obscene practice. Abominations are done in the forest -
Abigail: It were sport, uncle!
Parris, pointing at Betty: You call this sport? She lowers her eyes. He pleads: Abigail,
if you know something that may help the doctor, for God’s sake tell it to me. She is
silent. I saw Tituba waving her arms over the fire when I came on you. Why was she
doing that? And I heard a screeching and gibberish coming from her mouth. She were
swaying like a dumb beast over that fire!
Abigail: She always sings her Barbados songs, and we dance.
Parris: I cannot blink what I saw, Abigail, for my enemies will not blink it. I saw a
dress lying on the grass.
Abigail, innocently: A dress?
Parris - it is very hard to say: Aye, a dress. And I thought I saw - someone naked
running through the trees!
Abigail, in terror: No one was naked! You mistake yourself, uncle!
PARRIs, with anger: I saw it! He moves from her. Then, re-solved: Now tell me true,
Abigail. And I pray you feel the weight of truth upon you, for now my ministry’s at
stake, my ministry and perhaps your cousin’s life. Whatever abomination you have
done, give me all of it now, for I dare not be taken unaware when I go before them
down there.
Abigail: There is nothin’ more. I swear it, uncle.
Parris, studies her, then nods, half convinced: Abigail, I have Sought here three long
years to bend these stiff-necked people to me, and now, just now when some good
respect is rising for me in the parish, you compromise my very character. I have 
 12 The Crucible
given you a home, child, I have put clothes upon your back - now give me upright
answer. Your name in the town - it is en-tirely white, is it not?
Abigail, with an edge of resentment: Why, I am sure it is, sir. There be no blush about
my name.
Parris, to the point: Abigail, is there any other cause than you have told me, for your
being discharged from Goody Proc-tor’s service? I have heard it said, and I tell you as I
heard it, that she comes so rarely to the church this year for she will not sit so close to
something soiled. What signified that remark?
Abigail: She hates me, uncle, she must, for I would not be her slave. It’s a bitter woman,
a lying, cold, sniveling woman, and I will not work for such a woman!
Parris: She may be. And yet it has troubled me that you are now seven month out of
their house, and in all this time no other family has ever called for your service.
Abigail: They want slaves, not such as I. Let them send to Barbados for that. I will not
black my face for any of them! With ill-concealed resentment at him: Do you begrudge
my bed, uncle?
Parris: No - no.
Abigail, in a temper: My name is good in the village! I will not have it said my name is
soiled! Goody Proctor is a gossiping liar!
Enter Mrs. Ann Putnam. She is a twisted soul of forty-five, a death-ridden woman,
haunted by dreams.
Parris, as soon as the door begins to open: No - no, I cannot have anyone'. He sees her,
and a certain deference springs into him, although his worry remains. Why, Goody
Putnam, come in.
Mrs. Putnam, full of breath, shiny-eyed: It is a marvel. It is surely a stroke of hell upon
you. 
 Act One Parris: No, Goody Putnam, it is - 1 3
Mrs. Putnam, glancing at Betty: How high did she fly, how high?
Parris: No, no, she never flew -
Mrs. Putnam, very pleased with it: Why, it’s sure she did. Mr. Collins saw her
goin’ over Ingersoll’s barn, and come down light as bird, he says!
Parris: Now, look you, Goody Putnam, she never - Enter Thomas Putnam, a
well-to-do, hard-handed landowner, near fifty. Oh, good morning, Mr. Putnam.
Putnam: It is a providence the thing is out now! It is a provi-dence. He goes
directly to the bed.
Parris: What’s out, sir, what’s - ?
Mrs. Putnam goes to the bed.
Putnam, looking down at Betty: Why, her eyes is closed! Look you, Ann.
Mrs. Putnam: Why, that’s strange. To Parris: Ours is open. Parris, shocked:
Your Ruth is sick?
Mrs. PuTNAM, with vicious certainty: I’d not call it sick; the Devil’s touch is
heavier than sick. It’s death, y’know, it’s death drivin’ into them, forked and
hoofed.
Parris: Oh, pray not! Why, how does Ruth ail?
Mrs. Putnam: She ails as she must - she never waked this morning, but her eyes
open and she walks, and hears naught, sees naught, and cannot eat. Her soul is
taken, surely.
Parris is struck.
PuTNAM, as though for further details: They say you’ve sent for Reverend
Hale of Beverly? 
 14 The Crucible
Parris, with dwindling conviction now: A precaution only. He has much experience in
all demonic-arts, and I -
Mrs. Putnam: He has indeed; and found a witch in Beverly last year, and let you
remember that.
Parris: Now, Goody Ann, they only thought that were a witch, and I am certain
there be no element of witchcraft here.
Putnam: No witchcraft! Now look you, Mr. Parris -
PaRRis: Thomas, Thomas, I pray you, leap not to witchcraft. I know that you -
you least of all, Thomas, would ever wish so disastrous a charge laid upon me.
We cannot leap to witchcraft. They will howl me out of Salem for such
corruption in my house.
A word about Thomas Putnam. He was a man with many grievances, at least
one of which appears justified. Some time before, his wife’s brother-in-law,
James Bayley, had been turned down as minister of Salem. Bayley had all the
qualifications, and a two-thirds vote into the bargain, but a faction stopped his
acceptance, for reasons that are not clear.
Thomas Putnam was the eldest son of the richest man in the village. He had
fought the Indians at Narragansett, and was deeply interested in parish affairs.
He undoubtedly felt it poor payment that the village should so blatantly
disregard his candi-date for one of its more important offices, especially since
he regarded himself as the intellectual superior of most of the people around
him.
His vindictive nature was demonstrated long before the witch-craft began.
Another former Salem minister, George Burroughs, had had to borrow money
to pay for his wife’s funeral, and, since the parish was remiss in his salary, he
was soon bankrupt. Thomas and his brother John had Burroughs jailed for debts
the man did not owe. The incident is important only in that Burroughs
succeeded in becoming minister where Bayley, 
Act One 15
Thomas Putnam’s brother-in-law, had been rejected; the motif of resentment is
clear here. Thomas Putnam felt that his own name and the honor of his family
had been smirched by the village, and he meant to right matters however he
could.
Another reason to believe him a deeply embittered man was his attempt to
break his father’s will, which left a dispropor-tionate amount to a stepbrother.
As with every other public cause in which he tried to force his way, he failed in
this.
So it is not surprising to find that so many accusations against people are in
the handwriting of Thomas Putnam, or that his name is so often found as a
witness corroborating the super-natural testimony, or that his daughter led the
crying-out at the most opportune junctures of the trials, especially when - But
we’ll speak of that when we come to it.
Putnum - at the moment he is intent upon getting Parris, for whom he has only
contempt, to move toward the abyss: Mr. Parris, I have taken your part in all
contention here, and I would continue; but I cannot if you hold back in this.
There are hurtful, vengeful spirits layin’ hands on these children.
Parris: But, Thomas, you cannot -
Putnam: Ann! Tell Mr. Parris what you have done.
MRs. Putnam: Reverend Parris, I have laid seven babies un-baptized in the
earth. Believe me, sir, you never saw more hearty babies born, And yet, each
would wither in my arms the very night of their birth. I have spoke nothin’, but
my heart has clamored intimations. And now, this year, my Ruth, my only - I
see her turning strange. A secret child she has become this year, and shrivels
like a sucking mouth were pullin’ on her life too. And so I thought to send her
to your Tituba -
Parris: To Tituba! What may Tituba - ?
Mrs. Putnam: Tituba knows how to speak to the dead, Mr. Parris. 
16 The Crucible
Parris: Goody Ann, it is a formidable sin to conjure up the dead!
Mrs. Putnam: I take it on my soul, but who else may surely tell us what person
murdered my babies?
Parris, horrified: Woman!
MRs. Putnam: They were murdered, Mr. Parris! And mark this proof! Mark it!
Last night my Ruth were ever so close to their little spirits; I know it, sir. For
how else is she struck dumb now except some power of darkness would stop her
mouth? It is a marvelous sign, Mr. Parris!
Putnam: Don’t you understand it, sir? There is a murdering witch among us,
bound to keep herself in the dark. Parris turns to Betty, a frantic terror rising in
him. Let your enemies make of it what they will, you cannot blink it more.
Parris, to Abigail: Then you were conjuring spirits last night.
Abigail, whispering: Not I, sir - Tituba and Ruth.
Parris turns now, with new fear, and goes to Betty, looks down at her, and then,
gazing off: Oh, Abigail, what proper payment for my charity! Now I am
undone.
Putnam: You are not undone! Let you take hold here. Wait for no one to charge
you - declare it yourself. You have dis-covered witchcraft -
Parris: In my house? In my house, Thomas? They will topple me with this!
They will make of it a -
Enter Mercy Lewis, the Putnams’ servant, a fat, sly, merciless girl of eighteen.
Mercy: Your pardons. I only thought to see how Betty i
Putnam: Why aren’t you home? Who’s with Ruth? 
Act One 17
Mercy: Her grandma come. She’s improved a little, I think - she give a powerful
sneeze before.
Mrs. Putnam: Ah, there’s a sign of life!
Mercy: I’d fear no more, Goody Putnam. It were a grand sneeze; another like it
will shake her wits together, I’m sure. She goes to the bed to look.
Parris: Will you leave me now, Thomas? I would pray a while alone.
Abigail: Uncle, you’ve prayed since midnight. Why do you not go down and -
PARRis: No - no. To Putnam: I have no answer for that crowd. I’ll wait till Mr.
Hale arrives. To get Mrs. Putnam to leave: If you will, Goody Ann...
PutnAM: Now look you, sir. Let you strike out against the Devil, and the village
will bless you for it! Come down, speak to them - pray with them. They’re
thirsting for your word, Mister! Surely you’ll pray with them.
Parris, swayed: I’ll lead them in a psalm, but let you say nothing of witchcraft
yet. I will not discuss it. The cause is yet unknown. I have had enough
contention since I came; I want no more.
Mrs. Putnam: Mercy, you go home to Ruth, d’y’hear?
Mercy: Aye, mum.
Mrs. Putnam goes out.
Parris, to Abigail: If she starts for the window, cry for me at once.
Abigail: I will, uncle.
Orris, to Putnam: There is a terrible power in her arms to-day. He goes out with
Putnam. 
18 The Crucible
Abigail, with hushed trepidation: How is Ruth sick?
Mercy! It’s weirdish, I know not - she seems to walk like a dead one since last
night.
Abigail, turns at once and goes to Betty, and now, with fear in her voice: Betty?
Betty doesn’t move. She shakes her. Now stop this! Betty! Sit up now!
Betty doesn’t stir. Mercy comes over.
Mercy: Have you tried beatin’ her? I gave Ruth a good one and it waked her for
a minute. Here, let me have her.
Abigail, holding Mercy back: No, he’ll be comin’ up. Listen, now; if they be
questioning us, tell them we danced - I told him as much already,
Mercy: Aye. And what more?
Abigail: He knows Tituba conjured Ruth’s sisters to come out of the grave.
Mercy: And what more?
Abigail: He saw you naked.
Mercy: clapping her hands together with a frightened laugh: Oh, Jesus!
Enter Mary Warren, breathless. She is seventeen, a subservient, naive, lonely
girl.
Mary Warren: What’ll we do? The village is out! I just come from the farm; the
whole country’s talkin’ witchcraft! They’ll be callin’ us witches, Abby!
Mercy, pointing and looking at Mary Warren: She means to tell, I know it.
Mary Warren: Abby, we’ve got to tell. Witchery’s a hangin’ error, a hangin’
like they done in Boston two year ago! We 
 Act One 19
must tell the truth, Abby! You’ll only be whipped for dancin’, and the other things!
Abigail: Oh,-we’ll be whipped!
Mary Warren: I never done none of it, Abby. I only looked!
Mercy, moving menacingly toward Mary: Oh, you’re a great one for lookin’, aren’t you,
Mary Warren? What a grand peeping courage you have!
Betty, on the bed, whimpers. Abigail turns to her at once.
Abigail: Betty? She goes to Betty. Now, Betty, dear, wake up now. It’s Abigail. She sits
Betty up and furiously shakes her. I’ll beat you, Betty! Betty whimpers. My, you seem
improving. I talked to your papa and I told him everything. So there’s nothing to -
Betty, darts op the bed, frightened of Abigail, and flattens her-self against the wall: I
want my mama!
ABIGAIL, with alarm, as she cautiously approaches Betty: What ails you, Betty? Your
mama’s dead and buried.
Betty: I’ll fly to Mama. Let me fly! She raises her arms as though to fly, and streaks for
the window, gets one leg out.
Abigail, pulling her away from the window: I told him every-thing,' he knows now, he
knows everything we -
Betty: You drank blood, Abby! You didn’t tell him that!
Abigail: Betty, you never say that again! You will never--
Betty: You did, you did! You drank a charm to kill John Proctor’s wife! You drank a
charm to kill Goody Proctor!
Abigail, smashes her across the face: Shut it! Now shut it!
Barry, collapsing on the bed: Mama, Mama! She dissolves into sobs. 
20 The Crucible
Abigail: Now look you. All of you. We danced. And Tituba conjured Ruth Putnam’s
dead sisters. And that is all. And mark this. Let either of you breathe a word, or the edge
of a word, about the other things, and I will come to you in the black of some terrible
night and I will bring a pointy reckoning that will shudder you. And you know I can do
it; I saw Indians smash my dear parents’ heads on the pillow next to mine, and I have
seen some reddish work done at night, and I can make you wish you had never seen the
sun go down! She goes to Betty and roughly sits her up. Now, you - sit up and stop this'
But Betty collapses in her hands and lies inert on the bed.
Marry Warren, with hysterical fright, What’s got her? Abigail stares in fright at Betty.
Abby, she’s going to die! It’s a sin to conjure, and we -
Abigail, starting for Mary: I say shut it, Mary Warren!
Enter John Proctor. On seeing him, Mary Warren leaps in fright,
Proctor was a farmer in his middle thirties, He need not have been a partisan of any
faction in the town, but there is evidence to suggest that he had a sharp and biting way
with hypocrites. He was the kind of man - powerful of body, even-tempered, and not
easily led - who cannot refuse support to partisans with-out drawing their deepest
resentment. In Proctor’s presence a fool felt his foolishness instantly - and a Proctor is
always marked for calumny therefore.
But as we shall see, the steady manner he displays does not spring from an untroubled
soul. He is a sinner, a sinner not only against the moral fashion of the time, but against
his own vision of decent conduct. These people had no ritual for the washing away of
sins. It is another trait we inherited from them. and it has helped to discipline us as well
as to breed hypocrisy among us. Proctor, respected and even feared in Salem, has 
 Act One 21
come to regard himself as a kind of fraud. But no hint of this has yet appeared on the
surface, and as he enters from the crowded parlor below it is a man in his prime we see,
with a quiet confidence and an unexpressed, hidden force. Mary War-ren, his servant,
can barely speak for embarrassment and fear.
Mary Warren: Oh! I’m just going home, Mr. Proctor.
Proctor: Be you foolish, Mary Warren? Be you deaf? I for-bid you leave the
house, did I not? Why shall I pay you? I am looking for you more often than my
cows!
Mary Warren: I only come to see the great doings in the world.
Proctor: I’ll show you a great doin' on your arse one of these days. Now get you
home; my wife is waitin’ with your work! Trying to retain a shred of dignity,
she goes slowly out.
Mercy Lewis, both afraid of him and strangely titillated: I’d best be off. I have
my Ruth to watch. Good morning, Mr. Proctor.
Mercy sidles out. Since Proctor’s entrance, Abigail has stood as though on
tiptoe, absorbing his presence, wide-eyed. He glances at her, then goes to Betty
on the bed.
Abigail: Gah! I’d almost forgot how strong you are, John Proctor!
Proctor, looking at Abigail now, the faintest suggestion of a knowing smile on
his face: What’s this mischief here?
Abigail, with a nervous laugh: Oh, she’s only gone silly some-how.
Proctor: The road past my house is a pilgrimage to Salem all morning. The
town’s mumbling witchcraft.
Abigail: Oh, posh! Winningly she comes a little closer, with a 
22 The Crucible
confidential, wicked air. We were dancin’ in the woods last night, and my uncle leaped
in on us. She took fright, is all.
Proctor, his smile widening: Ah, you’re wicked yet, aren’t y’! A trill of
expectant laughter escapes her, and she dares come closer, feverishly looking
into his eyes. You’ll be clapped in the stocks before you’re twenty.
He takes a step to go, and she springs into his path.
Abigail: Give me a word, John. A soft word. Her concentrated desire destroys
his smile.
Proctor: No, no, Abby. That’s done with.
Abigail, tauntingly: You come five mile to see a silly girl fly? I know you
better.
Proctor, setting her firmly out of his path: I come to see what mischief your
uncle’s brewin’ now. With final emphasis: Put it out of mind, Abby.
Abigail, grasping his hand before he can release her: John - I am waitin’ for
you every night.
Proctor: Abby, I never give you hope to wait for me.
Abigail, now beginning to anger - she can’t believe it: I have something better
than hope, I think!
Proctor: Abby, you’ll put it out of mind. I’ll not be comin’ for you more.
Abigail: You’re surely sportin’ with me.
Proctor: You know me better.
Abigail: I know how you clutched my back behind your house and sweated
like a stallion whenever I come near! Or did I dream that? It’s she put me out,
you cannot pretend it were you. I saw your face when she put me out, and you
loved me then and you do now! 
 Act One 23
 Proctor: Abby, that’s a wild thing to say -
Abigail: A wild thing may say wild things. But not so wild, I think. I have seen you
since she put me out; I have seen you nights.
Proctor: I have hardly stepped off my farm this sevenmonth.
Abigail: I have a sense for heat, John, and yours has drawn me to my window,
and I have seen you looking up, burning in your loneliness. Do you tell me
you’ve never looked up at my window?
Proctor: I may have looked up.
Abigail, now softening: And you must. You are no wintry man. I know you,
John. I know you. She is weeping. I cannot sleep for dreamin‘; I cannot dream
but I wake and walk about the house as though I’d find you comin’ through
some door. She clutches him desperately.
Proctor, gently pressing her from him, with great sympathy but firmly: Child -
Abigail, with a pash of anger: How do you call me child!
Proctor: Abby, I may think of you softly from time to time. But I will cut off my
hand before I’ll ever reach for you again. Wipe it out of mind. We never
touched, Abby.
Abigail: Aye, but we did.
Proctor: Aye, but we did not.
Abigail, with a bitter anger: Oh, I marvel how such a strong man may let such a
sickly wife be -
Proctor, angered - at himself as well: You’ll speak nothin’ of Elizabeth!
Abigail: She is blackening my name in the village! She is tell- 
 24 The Crucibie
ing lies about me! .She is a cold, sniveling woman, and you bend to her! Let her turn
you like a -
Proctor, shaking her: Do you look for whippin’?
A psalm is heard being sung below.
Abigail, in tears: I look for John Proctor that took me from my sleep and put knowledge
in my heart! I never knew what pretense Salem was, I never knew the lying lessons I
was taught by all these Christian women and their covenanted men! And now you bid
me tear the light out of my eyes? I will not, I cannot! You loved me, John Proctor, and
whatever sin it is, you love me yet! He turns abruptly to go out. She rushes to him. John,
pity me, pity me!
The words “going up to Jesus” are heard in the psalm and Betty claps her ears
suddenly and whines loudly.
Abigail: Betty? She hurries to Betty, who is now sitting up and screaming. Proctor goes
to Betty as Abigail is trying to pull her hands down, calling “Betty!”
Proctor, growing unnerved: What’s she doing? Girl, what ails you? Stop that wailing!
The singing has stopped in the midst of this, and now Parris rushes in.
Parris: What happened? What are you doing to her? Betty! He rushes to the bed, crying,
“Betty, Betty!” Mrs. Putnam enters, feverish with curiosity, and with her Thomas
Putnam and Mercy lewis. Parris, at the bed, keeps lightly slapping Betty’s face, while
she moans and tries to get up.
Abigail: She heard you singin’ and suddenly she’s up and screamin’.
Mrs. Putnam: The psalm! The psalm! She cannot bear to hear the Lord’s name! 
Act One 25
Parris: No. God forbid. Mercy, run to the doctor! Tell him what’s happened
here! Mercy Lewis rushes out.
Mrs. Putnam: Mark it for a sign, mark it!
Rebecca Nurse, seventy-two, enters. She is white-haired, leaning upon her
walking-stick.
Putnam, pointing at the whimpering Betty: That is a notorious sign of witchcraft
afoot, Goody Nurse, a prodigious sign!
Mrs. Putnam: My mother told me that! When they cannot bear to hear the name
of -
Parris, trembling: Rebecca, Rebecca, go to her, we’re lost. She suddenly cannot
bear to hear the Lord’s -
Giles Corey, eighty-three, enters. He is knotted with muscle, canny, inquisitive,
and still powerful.
Rebecca: There is hard sickness here, Giles Corey, so please to keep the quiet.
GILEs: I’ve not said a word. No one here can testify I’ve said a word. Is she
going to fly again? I hear she flies.
Putnam: Man, be quiet now!
Everything is quiet. Rebecca walks across the room to the bed. Gentleness
exudes from her. Betty is quietly whimpering, eyes shut, Rebecca simply stands
over the child, who gradually quiets.
And while they are so absorbed, we may put a word in for Rebecca. Rebecca
was the wife of Francis Nurse, who, from all accounts, was one of those men for
whom both sides of the argument had to have respect. He was called upon to
arbitrate disputes as though he were an unofficial judge, and Rebecca also
enjoyed the high opinion most people had for him. By the time of the delusion,
they had three hundred acres, and their children were settled in separate
homesteads within the same 
26 The Crucible
estate. However, Francis had originally rented the land, and one theory has it that, as he
gradually paid for it and raised hi: social status, there were those who resented his rise.
Another suggestion to explain the systematic campaign against Rebecca, and
inferentially against Francis, is the land war he fought with his neighbors, one of whom
was a Putnam. This squabble grew to the proportions of a battle in the woods be-tween
partisans of both sides, and it is said to have lasted for two days. As for Rebecca herself,
the general opinion of her character was so high that to explain how anyone dared cry
her out for a witch - and more, how adults could bring them-selves to lay hands on her -
we must look to the fields and boundaries of that time.
As we have seen, Thomas Putnam’s man for the Salem min-istry was Bayley. The
Nurse clan had been in the faction that prevented Bayley’s taking office. In addition,
certain families allied to the Nurses by blood or friendship, and whose farms were
contiguous with the Nurse farm or close to it, combined to break away from the Salem
town authority and set up Tops-field, a new and independent entity whose existence was
re-sented by old Salemites.
That the guiding hand behind the outcry was Putnam’s is, indicated by the fact that, as
soon as it began, this Topsfield-Nurse ’faction absented themselves from church in
protest and disbelief. It was Edward and Jonathan Putnam who signed the first
complaint against Rebecca; and Thomas Putnam’s little daughter was the one who fell
into a fit at the hearing and pointed to Rebecca as her attacker. To top it all, Mrs.
Putnam - who is now staring at the bewitched child on the bed - soon accused Rebecca’s
spirit of “tempting her to iniquity,” a charge that had more truth in it than Mrs. Putnam
could know,
Mrs. Putnam, astonished: What have you done?
Rebecca, in thought, now leaves the bedside and sits. 
Act One 27
Parris, wondrous and relieved: What do you make of it, Rebecca?
Putnam, eagerly: Goody Nurse, will you go to my Ruth and see if you can wake
her?
Rebecca, sitting: I think she’ll wake in time. Pray calm your-selves. I have
eleven children, and I am twenty-six times a grandma, and I have seen them all
through their silly seasons, and when it come on them they will run the Devil
bowlegged keeping up with their mischief. I think she’ll wake when she tires of
it. A child’s spirit is like a child, you can never catch it by running after it; you
must stand still, and, for love, it will soon itself come back,
Proctor: Aye, that’s the truth of it, Rebecca.
Mrs. Putnam: This is no silly season, Rebecca. My Ruth is bewildered,
Rebecca; she cannot eat.
Rebecca: Perhaps she is not hungered yet. To Parris: I hope you are not decided
to go in search of loose spirits, Mr. Parris. I’ve heard.promise of that outside.
Parris: A wide opinion’s running in the parish that the Devil may be among us,
and I would satisfy them that they are wrong.
Proctor: Then let you come out and call them wrong. Did you consult the
wardens before you called this minister to look for devils?
Parris: He is not coming to look for devils!
Proctor: Then what’s he coming for?
Putnam: There be children dyin’ in the village, Mister!
Proctor: I seen none dyin’. This society will not be a bag to swing around your
head, Mr. Putnam. To Parris: Did you call a meeting before you - ? 
 28 The Crucible
PuTNAM: I am sick of meetings; cannot the man turn his head without he have a
meeting?
Proctor:, He may turn his head, but not to Hell!
Rebecca: Pray, John, be calm. Pause. He defers to her. Mr. Parris, I think you’d
best send Reverend Hale back as soon as he come. This will set us all to arguin’
again in the society, and we thought to have peace this year; I think we ought
rely on the doctor now, and good prayer.
Mrs. Putnam: Rebecca, the doctor’s baffled!
Rebecca: If so he is, then let us go to God for the cause of it. There is prodigious
danger in the seeking of loose spirits. I fear it, I fear it. Let us rather blame
ourselves and -
PutNAM: How may we blame ourselves? I am one of nine sons; the Putnam
seed have peopled this province. And yet I have but one child left of eight - and
now she shrivels!
Rebecca: I cannot fathom that.
Mrs. Putnam, with a growing edge of sarcasm: But I must! You think it God’s
work you should never lose a child, nor grand-child either, and I bury all but
one? There are wheels within wheels in this village, and fires within fires!
PuTNAM, to Parris: When Reverend Hale comes, you will pro-ceed to look for
signs of witchcraft here.
Proctor, to Putnam: You cannot command Mr. Parris. We vote by name in this
society, not by acreage.
Putnam: I never heard you worried so on this society, Mr. Proctor. I do not think
I saw you at Sabbath meeting since snow flew.
Proctor: I have trouble enough without I come five mile to hear him preach only
hellfire and bloody damnation. Take it 
 Act One 29
to heart, Mr. Parris. There are many others who stay away from church these days
because you hardly ever mention God any more.
Parris, now aroused: Why, that’s a drastic charge!
Rebecca: It’s somewhat true; there are many that quail to bring their children -
Parris: I do not preach for children, Rebecca. It is not the children who are
unmindful of their obligations toward this ministry.
Rebecca: Are there really those unmindful?
Parris: I should say the better half of Salem village -
PuTNAM: And more than that!
Parris: Where is my wood? My contract provides I be supplied with all my
firewood. I am waiting since November for a stick, and even in November I had
to show my frostbitten hands like some London beggar!
Giles: You are allowed six pound a year to buy your wood, Mr. Parris.
Parris: I regard that six pound as part of my salary. I am paid little enough
without I spend six pound on firewood.
Proctor: Sixty, plus six for firewood -
PARRis: The salary is sixty-six pound, Mr. Proctor! I am not some preaching
farmer with a book under my arm; I am a graduate of Harvard College.
Giles: Aye, and well instructed in arithmetic!
Parris: Mr. Corey, you will look far for a man of my kind at sixty pound a year!
I am not used to this poverty; I left a thrifty business in the Barbados to serve
the Lord. I do not 
 30 The Crucible
fathom it, why am I persecuted here? I cannot offer one propo-sition but there be a
howling riot of argument. I have often wondered if the Devil be in it somewhere; I
cannot understand you people otherwise.
Proctor: Mr. Parris, you are the first minister ever did demand the deed to this
house -
Parris: Man! Don’t a minister deserve a house to live in?
Proctor: To live in, yes. But to ask ownership is like you shall own the meeting
house itself; the last meeting I were at you spoke so long on deeds and
mortgages I thought it were an auction.
Parris: I want a mark of confidence, is all! I am your third preacher in seven
years. I do not wish to be put out like the cat whenever some majority feels the
whim. You people seem not to comprehend that a minister is the Lord’s man in
the parish; a minister is not to be so lightly crossed and contra-dicted -
PutnAM: Aye!
Parris: There is either obedience or the church will burn like Hell is burning!
Proctor: Can you speak one minute without we land in Hell again? I am sick of
Hell!
Parris: It is not for you to say what is good for you to hear!
Proctor: I may speak my heart, I think!
Parris, in a fury: What, are we Quakers? We are not Quakers here yet, Mr.
Proctor. And you may tell that to your followers!
Proctor: My followers!
PARRis - now he’s out with it: There is a party in this church. l am not blind;
there is a faction and a party. 
 Act One 31
 Proctor: Against you?
 PuTNAM: Against him and all authority!
 PRoctoR: Why, then I must find it and join it.
There is shock among the others.
Rebecca: He does not mean that.
 Putnam: He confessed it now!
Proctor: I mean it solemnly, Rebecca; I like not the smell of this “authority.”
Rebecca: No, you cannot break charity with your minister. You are another
kind, John. Clasp his hand, make your peace.
Proctor: I have a crop to sow and lumber to drag home. He goes angrily to the
door and turns to Corey with a smile. What say you, Giles, let’s find the party.
He says there’s a party.
Giles: I’ve changed my opinion of this man, John. Mr. Parris, I beg your
pardon. I never thought you had so much iron in you.
Parris, surprised: Why, thank you, Giles!
Giles: It suggests to the mind what the trouble be among us all these years. To
all: Think on it. Wherefore is everybody suing everybody else? Think on it
now, it’s a deep thing, and dark as a pit. l have been six time in court this year -
Proctor, familiarly, with warmth, although he knows he is approaching the edge
of Giles’ tolerance with this: Is it the Devil’s fault that a man cannot say you
good morning without you clap him for defamation? You’re old, Giles, and
you’re not hearin’ so well as you did.
Giles - he cannot be crossed: John Proctor, I have only last month collected
four pound damages for you publicly sayin’ I burned the roof off your house,
and I - 
Act One Proctor: Against you? PutNAM: Against him and all authority! PRoctoR: Why, then I must find it and join it.
There is shock among the others. Rebecca: He does not mean that. Putnam: He confessed it now! 31
Proctor: I mean it solemnly, Rebecca; I like not the smell of this “authority.”
Rebecca: No, you cannot break charity with your minister. You are another
kind, John. Clasp his hand, make your peace.
Proctor: I have a crop to sow and lumber to drag home. He goes angrily to the
door and turns to Corey with a smile. What say you, Giles, let’s find the party.
He says there’s a party.
Giles: I’ve changed my opinion of this man, John. Mr. Parris, I beg your
pardon. I never thought you had so much iron in you.
Parris, Surprised: Why, thank you, Giles!
Giles: It suggests to the mind what the trouble be among us all these years. To
all: Think on it. Wherefore is everybody suing everybody else? Think on it
now, it’s a deep thing, and dark as a pit. I have been six time in court this year -
Proctor, familiarly, with warmth, although he knows he is approaching the edge
of Giles’ tolerance with this: Is it the Devil’s fault that a man cannot say you
good morning without you clap him for defamation? You’re old, Giles, and
you’re not hearin’ so well as you did.
GILEs - he cannot be crossed: John Proctor, I have only last month collected
four pound damages for you publicly sayin’ I burned the roof off your house,
and I - 
 32 The Crucible
Proctor, laughing: I never said no such thing, but I’ve paid you for it, so I hope I can call you
deaf without charge. Now come along, Giles, and help me drag my lumber home.
PuTNAM: A moment, Mr. Proctor. What lumber is that you’re draggin’, if I may ask
you?
Proctor: My lumber. From out my forest by the riverside.
Putnam: Why, we are surely gone wild this year. What anarchy is this? That tract is in
my bounds, it’s in my bounds, Mr. Proctor.
Proctor: In your bounds! indicating Rebecca: I bought that tract from Goody Nurse’s
husband five months ago.
PuTNAM: He had no right to sell it. It stands clear in my grand-father’s will that all the
land between the river and -
Proctor: Your grandfather had a habit of willing land that never belonged to him, if I
may say it plain.
Giles: That’s God’s truth; he nearly willed away my north pasture but he knew I’d break
his fingers before he’d set his name to it. Let’s get your lumber home, John. I feel a
sudden will to work coming on.
Putnam: You load one oak of mine and you’ll fight to drag it home!
GiLEs: Aye, and we’ll win too, Putnam - this fool and I. Come on! He turns to Proctor
and starts out.
Putnam: I’ll have my men on you, Corey! I’ll clap a writ on you!
Enter Reverend John Hale of Beverly.
Mr. Hale is nearing forty, a tight-skinned, eager-eyed intel-lectual. This is a beloved
errand for him; on being called here 
Act One 33
to ascertain witchcraft he felt the pride of the specialist whose unique
knowledge has at last been publicly called for. Like almost all men of learning,
he spent a good deal of his time pondering the invisible world, especially since
he had himself encountered a witch in his parish not long before. That woman,
however, turned into a mere pest under his searching scrutiny, and the child she
had allegedly been afflicting recovered her normal behavior after Hale had
given her his kindness and a few days of rest in his own house. However, that
experience never raised a doubt in his mind as to the reality of the under-world
or the existence of Lucifer’s many-faced lieutenants. And his belief is not to his
discredit. Better minds than Hale’s were - and still are - convinced that there is a
society of spirits beyond our ken. One cannot help noting that one of his lines
has never yet raised a laugh in any audience that has seen this play; it is his
assurance that “,We cannot look to superstition in this. The Devil is precise.”
Evidently we are not quite certain even now whether diabolism is holy and not
to be scoffed at. And it is no accident that we should be so bemused.
Like Reverend Hale and the others on this stage, we conceive the Devil as a
necessary part of a respectable view of cosmology. Ours is a divided empire in
which certain ideas and emotions and actions are of God, and their opposites are
of Lucifer. It is as impossible for most men to conceive of a morality without
sin as of an earth without “sky.” Since 1692 a great but super-ficial change has
wiped out God’s beard and the Devil’s horns, but the world is still gripped
between two diametrically opposed absolutes. The concept of unity, in which
positive and negative are attributes of the same force, in which good and evil
are relative, ever-changing, and always joined to the same phenom-enon - such
a concept is still reserved to the physical sciences and to the few who have
grasped the history of ideas. When it is recalled that until the Christian era the
underworld was never regarded as a hostile area, that all gods were useful and
es-sentially friendly to man despite occasional lapses; when we 
34 The Crucible
see the steady and methodical inculcation into humanity of the idea of man’s
worthlessness - until redeemed - the necessity of the Devil may become evident as a
weapon, a weapon designed and used time and time again in every age to whip men into
a surrender to a particular church or church-state.
Our difficulty in believing the - for want of a better word - political inspiration of the
Devil is due in great part to the fact that he is called up and damned not only by our
social antagonists but by our own side, whatever it may be. The Catholic Church,
through its Inquisition, is famous for culti-vating Lucifer as the arch-fiend, but the
Church’s enemies relied no less upon the Old Boy to keep the human mind enthralled.
Luther was himself accused of alliance with Hell, and he in turn accused his enemies.
To complicate matters further, he believed that he had had contact with the Devil and
had argued theology with him. I am not surprised at this, for at my own university a
professor of history - a Lutheran, by the way - used to as-semble his graduate students,
draw the shades, and commune in the classroom with Erasmus. He was never, to my
knowledge, officially scoffed at for this, the reason being that the university officials,
like most of us, are the children of a history which still sucks at the Devil’s teats. At this
writing, only England has held back before the temptations of contemporary diabolism.
In the countries of the Communist ideology, all resistance of any import is linked to the
totally malign capitalist succubi, and in America any man who is not reactionary in his
views is open to the charge of alliance with the Red hell. Political opposition, thereby, is
given an inhumane overlay which then justifies the abrogation of all normally applied
customs of civilized inter-course. A political policy is equated with moral right, and
opposition to it with diabolical malevolence. Once such an equation is effectively made,
society becomes a congerie of plots and counterplots, and the main role of government
changes from that of the arbiter to that of the scourge of God.
The results of this process are no different now from what 
Act One 35
they ever were, except sometimes in the degree of cruelty inflicted, and not always even
in that department. Normally the actions and deeds of a man were all that society felt
com-fortable in judging, The secret intent of an action was left to the ministers, priests,
and rabbis to deal with. When diabolism rises, however, actions are the least important
manifests of the true nature of a man. The Devil, as Reverend Hale said, is a wily one,
and, until an hour before he fell, even God thought him beautiful in Heaven.
The analogy, however, seems to falter when one considers that, while there were no
witches then, there are Communists and capitalists now, and in each camp there is
certain proof that spies of each side are at work undermining the other. But this is a
snobbish objection and not at all warranted by the facts. I have no doubt that people
were communing with, and even worshiping, the Devil in Salem, and if the whole truth
could be known in this case, as it is in others, we should dis-cover a regular and
conventionalized' propitiation of the dark spirit, One certain evidence of this is the
confession of Tituba, the slave of Reverend Parris, and another is the behavior of the,
children who were known to have indulged in sorceries with her.
There are accounts of similar klatches in Europe, where the daughters of the towns
would assemble at night and, sometimes with fetishes, sometimes with a selected young
man, give them-selves to love, with some bastardly results. The Church, sharp-eyed as it
must be when gods long dead are brought to life, condemned these orgies as witchcraft
and interpreted them, rightly, as a resurgence of the Dionysiac forces it had crushed long
before. Sex, sin, and the. Devil were early linked, and so they continued to be in Salem,
and are today. From all accounts there are no more puritanical mores in the world than
those enforced by the Communists in Russia, where women’s fashions, for instance, are
as prudent and all-covering as any American Baptist would desire. The divorce laws lay
a tremendous re-sponsibility on the father for the care of his children. Even the 
36 The Crucible
laxity of divorce regulations in the early years of the revolution was undoubtedly a revulsion
from the nineteenth-century Vic-torian immobility of marriage and the consequent hypocrisy
that developed from it. If for no other reasons, a state so power-ful, so jealous of the uniformity
of its citizens, cannot long toler-ate the atomization of the family. And yet, in American eyes at
least, there remains the conviction that the Russian attitude toward women is lascivious. It is the
Devil working again, just as he is working within the Slav who is shocked at the very idea of a
woman’s disrobing herself in a burlesque show. Our opposites are always robed in sexual sin,
and it is from this unconscious conviction that demonology gains both its attractive sensuality
and its capacity to infuriate and frighten.
Coming into Salem now, Reverend Hale conceives of himself much as a young doctor on his
first call. His painfully acquired armory of symptoms, catchwords, and diagnostic procedures
are now to be put to use at last. The road from Beverly is unusually busy this morning, and he
has passed a hundred rumors that make him smile at the ignorance of the yeomanry in this most
precise science. He feels himself allied with the best minds of Europe - kings, philosophers,
scientists, and ecclesiasts of all churches. His goal is light, goodness and its preservation, and he
knows the exaltation of the blessed whose intelligence, sharpened by minute examinations of
enormous tracts, is finally called upon to face what may be a bloody fight with the Fiend
himself.
He appears loaded down with half a dozen heavy books. Hale: Pray you, someone take
these!
. Parris, delighted: Mr. Hale! Oh! it’s good to see you again!
Taking some books: My, they’re heavy!
Hale, setting down his books: They must be; they are weighted with authority. 
 Act One Parris, a little scared: Well, you do come prepared! 37
Hale: We shall need hard study if it comes to tracking down the Old Boy. Noticing
Rebecca: You cannot be Rebecca Nurse?
Rebecca: I am, sir. Do you know me?
Hale: It’s strange how I knew you, but I suppose you look as such a good soul
should. We have all heard of your great charities in Beverly.
Parris: Do you know this gentleman? Mr. Thomas Putnam. And his good wife
Ann.
Hale: Putnam! I had not expected such distinguished company,
sir.
Putnam, pleased: It does not seem to help us today, Mr. Hale. We look to you to
come to our house and save our child.
Hale: Your child ails too?
Mrs. Putnam: Her soul, her soul seems flown away. She sleeps and yet she
walks...
PutNAM: She cannot eat.
Hale: Cannot eat! Thinks on it, Then, to Proctor and Giles Corey: Do you men
have addicted children?
Parris: No, no, these are farmers. John Proctor -
Giles Corey: He don’t believe in witches.
Proctor, to Hale: I never spoke on witches one way or the other. Will you come,
Giles?
Giles: No - no, John, I think not. I have some few queer questions of my own to
ask this fellow.
Proctor: I’ve heard you to be a sensible man, Mr. Hale. I hope you’ll leave some
of it in Salem. 
38 The Crucible
Proctor goes. Hale stands embarrassed for an instant.
Parris, quickly: Will you look at my daughter, sir? Leads Hale to the bed. She has tried
to leap out the window; we discovered her this morning on the highroad, waving her
arms as though she’d fly.
Hale, narrowing his eyes. Tries to fly.
Putnam: She cannot bear to hear the Lord’s name, Mr. Hale; that’s a sure sign of
witchcraft afloat.
Hale, holding up his hands: No, no. Now let me instruct you. We cannot look to
superstition in this. The Devil is precise; the marks of his presence are definite as stone,
and I must tell you all that I shall not proceed unless you are prepared to believe me if I
should find no bruise of hell upon her.
Parris: It is agreed, sir - it is agreed - we will abide by your judgment.
Hale: Good then. He goes to the bed, looks down at Betty. To Parris: Now, sir, what
were your first warning of this strange-ness?
Parris: Why, sir - I discovered her - indicating Abigail - and my niece and ten or twelve
of the other girls, dancing in the forest last night.
Hale, surprised: You permit dancing?
Parris: No, no, it were secret -
MRs. Putnam, unable to wait: Mr. Parris’s slave has knowledge of conjurin’, sir.
Parris, to Mrs. Putnam: We cannot be sure of that, Goody Ann -
Mrs. Putnam, frightened, very softly: I know it, sir. I sent my child - she should learn
from Tituba who murdered her sisters. 
 Act One 37
 Parris, a little scared: Well, you do come prepared!
Hale: We shall need hard study if it comes to tracking down the Old Boy. Noticing Rebecca: You
cannot be Rebecca Nurse?
Rebecca: I am, sir. Do you know me?
Hale: It’s strange how I knew you, but I suppose you look as such a good soul should.
We have all heard of your great charities in Beverly.
Parris: Do you know this gentleman? Mr. Thomas Putnam. And his good wife Ann.
Hale: Putnam! I had not expected such distinguished company,
sir.
Putnam, pleased, It does not seem to help us today, Mr. Hale. We look to you to come
to our house and save our child.
Hale: Your child ails too?
MRs. Putnam: Her soul, her soul seems flown away. She sleeps and yet she walks...
Putnam: She cannot eat.
Hale: Cannot eat! Thinks on it. Then, to Proctor and Giles Corey: Do you men have
afflicted children?
Parris: No, no, these are farmers. John Proctor -
Giles Corey: He don’t believe in witches.
Proctor to Hale: I never spoke on witches one way or the other. Will you come, Giles?
Giles: No - no, John, I think not. I have some few queer questions of my own to ask this
fellow.
Proctor: I’ve heard you to be a sensible man, Mr. Hale. I hope you’ll leave some of it in
Salem. 
 38 The Crucible
Proctor goes. Hale stands embarrassed for an instant.
Parris, quickly: Will you look at my daughter, sir? Leads Hale to the bed. She has tried
to leap out the window; we discovered her this morning on the highroad, waving her
arms as though she’d fly.
Hale, narrowing his eyes: Tries to fly.
Putnam: She cannot bear to hear the' Lord’s name, Mr. Hale; that’s a sure sign of
witchcraft afloat.
Hale, holding up his hands: No, no. Now let me instruct you. We cannot look to
superstition in this. The Devil is precise; the marks of his presence are definite as stone,
and I must tell you all that I shall not proceed unless you are prepared to believe me if I
should find no bruise of hell upon her.
Parris: It is agreed, sir - it is agreed - we will abide by your judgment.
Hale: Good then. He goes to the bed, looks down at Betty. To Parris: Now, sir, what
were your first warning of this strange-ness?
Parris: Why, sir - I discovered her - indicating Abigail - and my niece and ten or twelve
of the other girls, dancing in the forest last night.
Hale, surprised: You permit dancing?
Parris: No, no, it were secret -
Mrs. Putnam, unable to wait: Mr. Parris’s slave has knowledge of conjurin’, sir.
Parris, to Mrs. Putnam: We cannot be sure of that, Goody Ann -
Mrs. Putnam, frightened, very softly: I know it, sir. I sent my child - she should learn
from Tituba who murdered her sisters. 
 Act One 39
Rebecca horrified: Goody Ann! You sent a child to conjure up the dead?
Mrs. Putnam: Let God blame me, not you, not you, Rebecca! I’ll not have you
judging me any more! To Hale: Is it a natural work to lose seven children
before they live a day?
Parris: Sssh!
Rebecca, with great pain, turns her face away. There is a pause.
Hale: Seven dead in childbirth.
Mrs. Putnam, softly: Aye. Her voice breaks; she looks up at him. Silence. Hale
is impressed. Parris looks to him. He goes to his books, opens one, turns pages,
then reads. All wait, avidly.
Parris, hushed: What book is that?
Mrs. Putnam: What's there, sir?
Hale, with a tasty love of intellectual pursuit: Here is all the invisible world,
caught, defined, and calculated. In these books the Devil stands stripped of all
his brute disguises. Here are all your familiar spirits - your incubi and succubi;
your witches that go by land, by air, and by sea; your wizards of the night and
of the day. Have no fear now - we shall find him out if he has come among us,
and I mean to crush him utterly if he has shown his face! He starts for the bed.
Rebecca: Will it hurt the child, sir?
Hale: I cannot tell. If she is truly in the Devil’s grip we may have to rip and tear
to get her free.
REBECCA: I think I’ll go, then. I am too old for this. She rises.
Parris, striving for conviction: Why, Rebecca, we may open up the boil of all
our troubles today!
Rebecca: Let us hope for that. I go to God for you, sir. 
40 The Crucible
Parris, with trepidation - and resentment: I hope you do not mean we go to
Satan here! Slight pause.
Rebecca: I wish I knew. She goes out; they feel resentful of her note of moral
superiority.
PuTNAM, abruptly: Come, Mr. Hale, let’s get on. Sit you here.
Giles: Mr. Hale, I have always wanted to ask a learned man - what signifies the
readin’ of strange books?
Hale: What books?
Giles: I cannot tell; she hides them, Hale; Who does
this?
Giles: Martha, my wife. I have waked at night many a time and found her in a
corner, readin’ of a book. Now what do you make of that?
Hale: Why, that’s not necessarily -
Giles: It discomfits me! Last night - mark this - I tried and tried and could not
say my prayers. And then she close her book and walks out of the house, and
suddenly - mark this - I could pray again!
Old Giles must be spoken for, if only because his fate was to be so
remarkable and so different from that of all the others. He was in his early
eighties at this time, and was the most comical hero in the history. No man has
ever been blamed for so much. If a cow was missed, the first thought was to
look for her around Corey’s house; a fire blazing up at night brought sus-picion
of arson to his door. He didn’t give a hoot for public opinion, and only in his
last years - after he had married Martha - did he bother much with the church.
That she stopped his prayer is very probable, but he forgot to say that he’d only
recently learned any prayers and it didn’t take much to make him stumble over
them. He was a crank and a nuisance, but 
Act One 41
withal a deeply innocent and brave man. In court once he was asked if it were
true that he had been frightened by the strange behavior of a hog and had then
said he knew it to be the Devil in an animal’s shape. “What frighted you?” he
was asked. He forgot everything but the word “frighted,” and instantly replied,
“I do not know that I ever spoke that word in my life,”
Hale: Ah! The stoppage of prayer - that is strange. I’ll speak further on that with
you.
Giles: I’m not sayin’ she’s touched the Devil, now, but I’d admire to know what
books she reads and why she hides them. ' She’ll not answer me, y’ see.
Hale: Aye, we’ll discuss it. To all: Now mark me, if the Devil is in her you will
witness some frightful wonders in this room, so please to keep your wits about
you. Mr. Putnam, stand close in case she flies. Now, Betty, dear, will you sit
up? Putnam comes in closer, ready-handed. Hale sits Betty up, but she hangs
limp in his hands. Hmmm. He observes her carefully. The others watch
breathlessly. Can you hear me? I am John Hale, minister of Beverly. I have
come to help you, dear. Do you remember my two little girls in Beverly? She
does not stir in his hands.
Parris, in fright: How can it be the Devil? Why would he choose my house to
strike? We have all manner of licentious . people in the village!
Hale: What victory would the Devil have to win a soul already bad? It is the
best the Devil wants, and who is better than the minister?
Giles: That’s deep, Mr, Parris, deep, deep!
Paaris, with resolution now: Betty! Answer Mr. Hale! Betty! Hale: Does
someone afflict you, child? It need not be a woman, mind you, or a man.
Perhaps some bird invisible to others comes to you - perhaps a pig, a mouse, or
any beast at all. Is there 
 42 The Crucible
some figure bids you fly? The child remains limp in his hands. In silence he lays her back on the
pillow Now, holding out his hands toward her, he intones: In nomine Domini Sabaoth sui filiique
ite ad infernos. She does not stir. He turns to Abigail, his eyes narrowing. Abigail, what sort of
dancing were you doing with her in the forest?
Abigail: Why - common dancing is all.
Parris: I think I ought to say that I - I saw a kettle in the grass where they were dancing.
Abigail: That were only soup.
Hale: What sort of soup were in this kettle, Abigail?
Abigail: Why, it were beans - and lentils, I think, and -
Hale: Mr. Parris, you did not notice, did you, any living thing in the kettle? A mouse,
perhaps, a spider, a frog - ?
Parris, fearfully: I - do believe there were some movement - in the soup.
Abigail: That jumped in, we never put it in!
Hale, quickly: What jumped in?
Abigail: Why, a very little frog jumped -
Parris: A frog, Abby!
Hale, grasping Abigail: Abigail, it may be your cousin is dying. Did you call the Devil
last night?
Abigail: I never called him! Tituba, Tituba...
Parris, blanched: She called the Devil?
Hale: I should like to speak with Tituba,
Parris: Goody Ann, will you bring her up? Mrs, Putnam exits.
Hale: How did she call him? 
 Act One 43
 Abigail: I know not - she spoke Barbados.
Hale: Did you feel any strangeness when she called him? A sudden cold wind, perhaps?
A trembling below the ground?
Abigail: I didn’t see no Devil! Shaking Betty: Betty, wake up. Betty! Betty!
Hale: You cannot evade me, Abigail. Did your cousin drink any of the brew in
that kettle?
Abigail: She never drank it!
Hale: Did you drink it?
Abigail: No, sir!
Hale ". Did Tituba ask you to drink it?
Abigail: She tried, but I refused.
Hale: Why are you concealing? Have you sold yourself to Lucifer?
Abigail: I never sold myself! I’m a good girl! I’m a proper girl! Mrs. Putnam
enters with Tituba, and instantly Abigail points at Tituba.
Abigail: She made me do it! She made Betty do it!
TiTUBA, shocked and angry: Abby!
Abigail: She makes me drink blood!
Parris: Blood!!
Mrs. Putnam: My baby’s blood?
TiTUBA: No, no, chicken blood. I give she chicken blood!
Hale: Woman, have you enlisted these children for the Devil?
TiTUBA: No, no, sir, I don’t truck with no Devil!
Hale: Why can she not wake? Are you silencing this child? 
44 The Crucible
TiTUBA: I love me Betty!
Hale; You have sent your spirit out upon this child, have you not? Are you gathering
souls for the Devil?
Abigail: She sends her spirit on me in church; she makes me laugh at prayer!
Parris: She have often laughed at prayer!
Abigail: She comes to me every night to go and drink blood!
TiTUBA: You beg me to conjure! She beg me make charm -
Abigail: Don’t lie! To Hale: She comes to me while I sleep; she’s always making me
dream corruptions!
TiTUBA: Why you say that, Abby?
Abigail: Sometimes I wake and find myself standing in the open doorway and not a
stitch on my body! I always hear her laughing in my sleep. I hear her singing her
Barbados songs and tempting me with -
TiTUBA: Mister Reverend, I never -
Hale, resolved now: Tituba, I want you to wake this child.
TiTUBA: I have no power on this child, sir.
Hale: You most certainly do, and you will free her from it now! When did you compact
with the Devil?
Tituba: I don’t compact with no Devil!
Parris: You will confess yourself or I will take you out and whip you to your death,
Tituba!
PuTNAM: This woman must be hanged! She must be taken and hanged!
Tituba, terrified, falls to her knees: No, no, don’t hang Tituba! I tell him I don’t desire
to work for him, sir. 
Parris: The Devil?
 Act One 45
Hale: Then you saw him! Tituba weeps. Now Tituba, I know that when we bind
ourselves to Hell it is very hard to break with it. We are going to help you tear yourself
free -
Tituba, frightened by the coming process: Mister Reverend, I do believe
somebody else be witchin’ these children.
Hale: Who?
Tituba: I don’t know, sir, but the Devil got him numerous witches.
Hale: Does he! It is a clue. Tituba, look into my eyes. Come, look into me. She
raises her eyes to his fearfully. You would be a good Christian woman, would
you not, Tituba?
TiTUBA: Aye, sir, a good Christian woman.
Hale: And you love these little children?
Tituba: Oh, yes, sir, I don’t desire to hurt little children.
Hale: And you love God, Tituba?
TiTUBA: I love God with all my bein’.
Hale: Now, in God’s holy name -
Tituba: Bless Him. Bless Him. She is rocking on her kness, sobbing in terror.
Hale: And to His glory -
Tituba: Eternal glory. Bless Him - bless God...
Hale: Open yourself, Tituba - open yourself and let,God’s holy light shine on
you.
TiTUBA: Oh, bless the Lord.
Hale: When the Devil comes to you does he ever come - with another person?
She stares up into his face, Perhaps another person in the village? Someone you
know.
Parris: Who came with him? 
46 The Crucible
Putnam: Sarah Good? Did you ever see Sarah Good with him? Or Osburn?
Parris: Was it man or woman came with him?
TiTUBA: Man or woman. Was - was woman.
Parris: What woman? A woman, you said. What woman?
TiTUBA: It was black dark, and I -
PaRRis: You could see him, why could you not see her?
Tituba: Well, they was always talking; they was always runnin’ round and
carryin’ on -
Parris: You mean out of Salem? Salem witches?
TiTUBA: I believe so, yes, sir.
Now Hale takes her hand. She is surprised.
Hale: Tituba. You must have no fear to tell us who they are, do you understand?
We will protect you. The Devil can never overcome a minister. You know that,
do you not?
Tituba, kisses Hale’s hand: Aye, sir, oh, I do.
Hale: You have confessed yourself to witchcraft, and that speaks a wish to come
to Heaven’s side. And we will bless you, Tituba.
Tituba, deeply relieved: Oh, God bless you, Mr. Hale!
Hale, with rising exaltation: You are God’s instrument put in our hands to
discover the Devil’s agents among us. You are selected, Tituba, you are chosen
to help us cleanse our village. So speak utterly, Tituba, turn your back on him
and face God - face God, Tituba, and God will protect you.
TITUBA, joining with him: Oh, God, protect Tituba!
Hale, kindly: Who came to you with the Devil? Two? Three? Four? How many? 
 Act One 47
Tituba pants, and begins rocking back and forth again, staring ahead.
Tituba: There was four. There was four.
Parris, pressing in on her: Who? Who? Their names, their names!
Tituba, suddenly bursting out: Oh, how many times he bid me .kill you, Mr.
Parris!
Parris: Kill me!
TiTUBA, in a fury: He say Mr. Parris must be kill! Mr. Parris no goodly man,
Mr. Parris mean man and no gentle man, and he bid me rise out of my bed and
cut your throat! They gasp. But I tell him “No! I don’t hate that man. I don’t
want kill that man.” But he say, “You work for me, Tituba, and I make you free!
I give you pretty dress to wear, and put you way high up in the air, and you
gone fly back to Barbados!” And I say, “You lie, Devil, you lie!” And then he
come one stormy night to me, and he say, “Look! I have white people belong to
me.” And I look - and there was Goody Good.
Parris: Sarah Good!
TiTUBA, rocking and weeping: Aye, sir, and Goody Osburn.
Mrs. Putnam: I knew it! Goody Osburn were midwife to me three times. I
begged you, Thomas, did I not? I begged him not to call Osburn because I
feared her. My babies always shriveled in her hands!
Hale: Take courage, you must give us all their names. How can you bear to see
this child suffering? Look at her, Tituba. He is indicating Betty on the bed. Look
at her God-given innocence; her soul is so tender; we must protect her, Tituba;
the Devil is out and preying on her like a beast upon the mesh of the pure lamb.
God will bless you for your help. 
48 The Crucible
Abigail rises, staring as though inspired, and cries out.
' Abigail: I want to open myself! They turn to her, startled. She is enraptured, as though
in a pearly light. I want the light of God, I want the sweet love of Jesus! I danced for
the Devil; I saw him; I wrote in his book; I go back to Jesus; I kiss His hand. I saw
Sarah Good with the Devil! I saw Goody Osburn with the Devil! I saw Bridget Bishop
with the Devil!
As she is speaking, Betty is rising from the bed, a fever in her eyes, and picks up the
chant.
Betty, staring too: I saw George Jacobs with the Devil! I saw Goody Howe with the
Devil!
Parris: She speaks! He rushes to embrace Betty. She speaks! Hale: Glory to God! It is
broken, they are free!
Betty, calling out hysterically and with great relief: I saw Martha Bellows with the
Devil!
Abigail: I saw Goody Sibber with the Devil! It is rising to o great glee.
PutNAM: The marshal, I’ll call the marshal!
Parris is shouting a prayer of thanksgiving.
BETTY: I saw Alice Barrow with the Devi1!
The curtain begins to fall.
Hale, as Putnam goes out: Let the marshal bring irons!
Abigail: I saw Goody Hawkins with the Devil!
BeTTY: I saw Goody Bibber with the Devil!
Abigail: I saw Goody Booth with the Devil!
On their ecstatic cries
THE CURTAIN FALLS 