Reverend Parris is praying now, and, though we cannot hear his words, a sense of his
confusion hangs about him. He mumbles, then seems about to weep; then he weeps,
then,prays again; but his daughter does not stir on the bed.
The door opens, and his Negro slave enters. Tituba is in her forties. Parris brought her
with him from Barbados, where he spent some years as a merchant before entering the
ministry. She enters as one does who can no longer bear to be barred from the sight of
her beloved, but she is also very frightened because her slave sense has warned her
that, as always, trouble in this house eventually lands on her back.
Tituba, already taking a step backward: My Betty be hearty soon?
Parris: Out of here!
Tituba, backing to the door: My Betty not goin4 die...
Parris, scrambling to his feet in a fury: Out of my sight! She is gone. Out of my - He is
overcome with sobs. He clamps his teeth against them and closes the door and leans
against it, ex-hausted. Oh, my God! God help me! Quaking with fear, mum-bling to
himself through his sobs, he goes to the bed and gently takes Betty4s hand. Betty. Child.
Dear child, Will you wake, will you open up your eyes! Betty, little one...
He is bending to kneel again when his niece, Abigail Williams, seventeen, enters - a
strikingly beautiful girl, an orphan, with an 
 Act One 9
endless capacity for dissembling. Now she is all worry and appre-hension and
propriety.
Abigail: Uncle? He looks to her. Susanna Walcott4s here from Doctor Griggs.
Parris: Oh?. Let her come, let her come.
Abigail, leaning out the door to call to Susanna, who is down the hall a few
steps: Come in, Susanna.
Susanna Walcott, a little younger than Abigail, a nervous, hur-ried girl, enters.
Parris, eagerly: What does the doctor say, child?
Susanna, craning around Parris to get a look at Betty: He bid me come and tell
you, reverend sir, that he cannot discover no medicine for it in his books.
Parris: Then he must search on.
Susanna: Aye, sir, he have been searchin4 his books since he left you, sir. But he
bid me tell you, that you might look to un-natural things for the cause of it.
Parris, his eyes going wide: No - no. There be no unnatural cause here. Tell him
I have sent for Reverend Hale of Beverly, and Mr. Hale will surely confirm that.
Let him look to medicine and put out all thought of unnatural causes here. There
be none.
Susanna: Aye, sir. He bid me tell you. She turns to go.
Abigail: Speak nothin4 of it in the village, Susanna.
Parris: Go directly home and speak nothing of unnatural causes.
Susanna: Aye, sir. I pray for her. She goes out.
Abigail: Uncle, the rumor of witchcraft is all about; I think 
 10 The Crucible
you4d best go down and deny it yourself. The parlor4s packed with people, sir. I4ll sit
with her.
Parris, pressed, turns on her: And what shall I say to them? That my daughter
and my niece I discovered dancing like heathen in the forest?
Abigail: Uncle, we did dance; let you tell them I confessed it - and I4ll be
whipped if I must be. But they4re speakin4 of witch-craft. Betty4s not witched.
Parris: Abigail, I cannot go before the congregation when I know you have not
opened with me. What did you do with her in the forest?
Abigail: We did dance, uncle, and when you leaped out of the bush so suddenly,
Betty was frightened and then she fainted. And there4s the whole of it.
Parris: Child. Sit you down.
Abigail, quavering, as she sits: I would never hurt Betty. I love her dearly.
Parris; Now look you, child, your punishment will come in its time. But if you
trafficked with spirits in the forest I must know it now, for surely my enemies
will, and they will ruin me with it.
Abigail: But we never conjured spirits.
Parris: Then why can she not move herself since midnight? This child is
desperate! Abigail lowers her eyes. It must come out - my enemies will bring it
out. Let me know what you done there. Abigail, do you understand that I have
many enemies?
Abigail: I have heard of it, uncle.
Parris: There is a faction that is sworn to drive me from my pulpit. Do you
understand that?
Abigail: I think so, sir. 
Act One 11
Parris: Now then, in the midst of such disruption, my own household is discovered to
be the very center of some obscene practice. Abominations are done in the forest -
Abigail: It were sport, uncle!
Parris, pointing at Betty: You call this sport? She lowers her eyes. He pleads: Abigail,
if you know something that may help the doctor, for God4s sake tell it to me. She is
silent. I saw Tituba waving her arms over the fire when I came on you. Why was she
doing that? And I heard a screeching and gibberish coming from her mouth. She were
swaying like a dumb beast over that fire!
Abigail: She always sings her Barbados songs, and we dance.
Parris: I cannot blink what I saw, Abigail, for my enemies will not blink it. I saw a
dress lying on the grass.
Abigail, innocently: A dress?
Parris - it is very hard to say: Aye, a dress. And I thought I saw - someone naked
running through the trees!
Abigail, in terror: No one was naked! You mistake yourself, uncle!
PARRIs, with anger: I saw it! He moves from her. Then, re-solved: Now tell me true,
Abigail. And I pray you feel the weight of truth upon you, for now my ministry4s at
stake, my ministry and perhaps your cousin4s life. Whatever abomination you have
done, give me all of it now, for I dare not be taken unaware when I go before them
down there.
Abigail: There is nothin4 more. I swear it, uncle.
Parris, studies her, then nods, half convinced: Abigail, I have Sought here three long
years to bend these stiff-necked people to me, and now, just now when some good
respect is rising for me in the parish, you compromise my very character. I have 
 12 The Crucible
given you a home, child, I have put clothes upon your back - now give me upright
answer. Your name in the town - it is en-tirely white, is it not?
Abigail, with an edge of resentment: Why, I am sure it is, sir. There be no blush about
my name.
Parris, to the point: Abigail, is there any other cause than you have told me, for your
being discharged from Goody Proc-tor4s service? I have heard it said, and I tell you as I
heard it, that she comes so rarely to the church this year for she will not sit so close to
something soiled. What signified that remark?
Abigail: She hates me, uncle, she must, for I would not be her slave. It4s a bitter woman,
a lying, cold, sniveling woman, and I will not work for such a woman!
Parris: She may be. And yet it has troubled me that you are now seven month out of
their house, and in all this time no other family has ever called for your service.
Abigail: They want slaves, not such as I. Let them send to Barbados for that. I will not
black my face for any of them! With ill-concealed resentment at him: Do you begrudge
my bed, uncle?
Parris: No - no.
Abigail, in a temper: My name is good in the village! I will not have it said my name is
soiled! Goody Proctor is a gossiping liar!
Enter Mrs. Ann Putnam. She is a twisted soul of forty-five, a death-ridden woman,
haunted by dreams.
Parris, as soon as the door begins to open: No - no, I cannot have anyone'. He sees her,
and a certain deference springs into him, although his worry remains. Why, Goody
Putnam, come in.
Mrs. Putnam, full of breath, shiny-eyed: It is a marvel. It is surely a stroke of hell upon
you. 
 Act One Parris: No, Goody Putnam, it is - 1 3
Mrs. Putnam, glancing at Betty: How high did she fly, how high?
Parris: No, no, she never flew -
Mrs. Putnam, very pleased with it: Why, it4s sure she did. Mr. Collins saw her
goin4 over Ingersoll4s barn, and come down light as bird, he says!
Parris: Now, look you, Goody Putnam, she never - Enter Thomas Putnam, a
well-to-do, hard-handed landowner, near fifty. Oh, good morning, Mr. Putnam.
Putnam: It is a providence the thing is out now! It is a provi-dence. He goes
directly to the bed.
Parris: What4s out, sir, what4s - ?
Mrs. Putnam goes to the bed.
Putnam, looking down at Betty: Why, her eyes is closed! Look you, Ann.
Mrs. Putnam: Why, that4s strange. To Parris: Ours is open. Parris, shocked:
Your Ruth is sick?
Mrs. PuTNAM, with vicious certainty: I4d not call it sick; the Devil4s touch is
heavier than sick. It4s death, y4know, it4s death drivin4 into them, forked and
hoofed.
Parris: Oh, pray not! Why, how does Ruth ail?
Mrs. Putnam: She ails as she must - she never waked this morning, but her eyes
open and she walks, and hears naught, sees naught, and cannot eat. Her soul is
taken, surely.
Parris is struck.
PuTNAM, as though for further details: They say you4ve sent for Reverend
Hale of Beverly? 
 14 The Crucible
Parris, with dwindling conviction now: A precaution only. He has much experience in
all demonic-arts, and I -
Mrs. Putnam: He has indeed; and found a witch in Beverly last year, and let you
remember that.
Parris: Now, Goody Ann, they only thought that were a witch, and I am certain
there be no element of witchcraft here.
Putnam: No witchcraft! Now look you, Mr. Parris -
PaRRis: Thomas, Thomas, I pray you, leap not to witchcraft. I know that you -
you least of all, Thomas, would ever wish so disastrous a charge laid upon me.
We cannot leap to witchcraft. They will howl me out of Salem for such
corruption in my house.
A word about Thomas Putnam. He was a man with many grievances, at least
one of which appears justified. Some time before, his wife4s brother-in-law,
James Bayley, had been turned down as minister of Salem. Bayley had all the
qualifications, and a two-thirds vote into the bargain, but a faction stopped his
acceptance, for reasons that are not clear.
Thomas Putnam was the eldest son of the richest man in the village. He had
fought the Indians at Narragansett, and was deeply interested in parish affairs.
He undoubtedly felt it poor payment that the village should so blatantly
disregard his candi-date for one of its more important offices, especially since
he regarded himself as the intellectual superior of most of the people around
him.
His vindictive nature was demonstrated long before the witch-craft began.
Another former Salem minister, George Burroughs, had had to borrow money
to pay for his wife4s funeral, and, since the parish was remiss in his salary, he
was soon bankrupt. Thomas and his brother John had Burroughs jailed for debts
the man did not owe. The incident is important only in that Burroughs
succeeded in becoming minister where Bayley, 
Act One 15
Thomas Putnam4s brother-in-law, had been rejected; the motif of resentment is
clear here. Thomas Putnam felt that his own name and the honor of his family
had been smirched by the village, and he meant to right matters however he
could.
Another reason to believe him a deeply embittered man was his attempt to
break his father4s will, which left a dispropor-tionate amount to a stepbrother.
As with every other public cause in which he tried to force his way, he failed in
this.
So it is not surprising to find that so many accusat